<br>
<p id="title-lesson">The Evolution of Blockchain and Bitcoin</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you've made it to the first lesson!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>

<p id="sub-md">With the creation of <span id="special-word">bitcoin</span> in 2008, the blockchain was born. Its actual rollout began in 2009. For the purposes of this chapter, only a basic overview of bitcoin is provided as it will be discussed in depth later. However, it is necessary to include Bitcoin because the history of the blockchain would be incomplete without it.</p>
<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Electronic money </p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Electronic money or digital currency is not a new notion.Since the 1980s, there have been e-cash protocols based on a model established by David Chaum. </p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Just as comprehending the notion of distributed systems is required to comprehend blockchain technology, understanding the concept of electronic cash is required to appreciate the first and astoundingly successful use of blockchain, Bitcoin, or cryptocurrencies in general.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Two critical e-cash system issues must be addressed: <span id="special-word">accountability</span> and
<span id="special-word">anonymity</span></p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Accountability</span> is essential to ensure that currency can only be spent once (the double-spend problem) and can only be spent by the legitimate owner. The dilemma of double spending arises when the same amount of money can be spent twice. Because it is relatively simple to manufacture copies of digital data, this becomes a significant concern in digital currencies, because several copies of the same digital cash can be created.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Anonymity</span> is essential to safeguard consumers' privacy. As with physical cash, it is nearly hard to trace expenditure back to the person who made the payment.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Bitcoin, the first realistic example of an electronic money system (e-cash), surfaced in 2009. Later the name cryptocurrency was coined. It solves for the first time the challenge of distributed consensus in a trustless network. It used public-key cryptography in conjunction with a proof-of-work (PoW) mechanism to provide a secure, controllable, and decentralized method of minting digital currency. The idea of an ordered list of blocks formed from transactions and cryptographically secured by the PoW mechanism was the essential invention. This notion will be discussed in more detail later, Introducing Bitcoin.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Merkle trees, hash functions, and hash chains are other technologies used in Bitcoin that existed prior to its creation. All of these topics are covered in detail in the lesson, Public Key Cryptography.</p>

