<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Mathematics</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you are extremely fast!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Because cryptography is a mathematical subject, this part will teach some basic principles that will help you comprehend the concepts covered later in the chapter.</p>
<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Set</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A set is a group of unique things, such as <span id="special-word">X = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}</span>.</p>
<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Group</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">A group</span> is a commutative set with one operation that joins two set components. The group operation is completed and assigned an identification element. Furthermore, each element in the set has an inverse. Closure (closed) denotes that if elements A and B are in the set, then the resultant element following an operation on the elements is likewise in the set. Associative means that the arrangement of elements has no effect on the outcome of the operation.</p>

<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Field</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">A field</span> is a collection of additive and multiplicative groups. To be more specific, all of the members in the set constitute an additive and multiplicative group. It fulfills the principles of addition and multiplication. The distributive law is also applied to all group operations.
Even if any of the terms or elements are reordered, the law requires that the same amount or result be created.</p>


<br>

<p id="title-lesson">A finite field</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">A finite field</span> has a finite number of elements. These structures, also known as Galois fields, are particularly important in cryptography because they may be utilized to provide precise and error-free arithmetic results. Prime finite fields, for example, are utilized in Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) to generate discrete logarithm issues.</p>

<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Order</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">The order</span> is determined by the number of elements in a field. It is also known as the field's cardinality.</p>


<br>

<p id="title-lesson">An abelian group</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">When the operation on the elements of a set is commutative,<span id="special-word">an abelian group</span> is produced.The commutative law states that changing the order of the elements has no effect on the outcome of the operation,such as : <br><span id="special-word">A X B = B X A</span>.</p>

<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Prime fields</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">A prime field</span> is one that has a finite number of elements. It has addition and multiplication rules, and each nonzero element in the field has an inverse. Modulo p, or prime, addition and multiplication operations are done.</p>

<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Ring</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">An abelian group becomes <span id="special-word">a ring</span> when more than one operation can be specified over it. There are additional specified properties that must be met. A ring must be closed as well as associative and distributive.</p>

<br>

<p id="title-lesson">A cyclic group</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">A cyclic group</span> is a group that can be produced by a single element known as the group generator.</p>

<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Modular arithmetic</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Numbers in modular arithmetic, often known as clock arithmetic, wrap around when they reach a set value. This fixed number is a positive number known as modulus, and all operations are done on it. There are numbers from 1 to 12, similar to a clock. When it reaches 12, it begins again at 1. In other words, after the division operation, this sort of arithmetic deals with the remainders. 50 mod 11 is 6, for example, because 50 / 11 leaves a leftover of 6.</p>