<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Non-repudiation</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you are special !</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Non-repudiation</span> is the guarantee that an entity cannot repudiate a prior promise or conduct by presenting unfalsifiable proof. This security solution provides unmistakable evidence that a specific activity has taken place. When an entity has disputed the actions taken, such as when placing an order on an e-commerce system, this characteristic is crucial. In electronic transactions, this service generates cryptographic proof that can be used as action confirmation in the event of a disagreement.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Non-repudiation</span> has long been a topic of ongoing research.To boost consumers' trust in these services, it is necessary to solve the problem of disputes in electronic transactions, which is a prevalent problem.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">The Non-repudiation</span> The non-repudiation protocol typically operates in a communication network and is used to show that an action has been taken by a network entity (originator or recipient). There are two communication models that can be applied in this situation to transfer messages from message originator A to message recipient B:</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">1) Sender A and recipient B exchange a message directly.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">2) Originator A sends a message to a delivery agent, which subsequently sends it to recipient B.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">A non-repudiation procedure should prioritize justice, efficacy, and quickness. Instead of just two parties, there are frequently several parties participating in a transaction. For instance, in computerized trading systems, a single transaction may involve a large number of parties, including clearing agencies, brokers, and traders. Two-party non-repudiation procedures are not appropriate in this situation. Multi-Party Non-Repudiation (MPNR) protocols have been created as a solution to this issue.</p>


