<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Cryptographic primitives</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you are special !</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A security protocol or system's fundamental building pieces are known as <span id="special-word">cryptographic primitives</span>. You will learn about cryptographic algorithms in the section that follows. These algorithms are crucial for creating safe protocols and systems. A security protocol is a series of actions made to use the proper security mechanisms in order to accomplish the necessary security goals. There are many different kinds of security protocols in use, including key management protocols, non-repudiation protocols, and authentication protocols.</p>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Symmetric cryptography</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">The term <span id="special-word">"symmetric cryptography"</span> refers to a type of encryption where the key used to encrypt and decrypt the data is the same. As a result, it is often referred to as shared key cryptography. The key needs to be decided upon or established before the communication parties transmit any data. Because of this, it is also known as secret key cryptography.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">Stream ciphers and block ciphers are the two categories of symmetric ciphers. Typical examples of block ciphers include Data Encryption Standard (DES) and Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), but stream ciphers like RC4 and A5 are frequently utilized.</p>


<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Stream ciphers</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Stream ciphers</span> are encryption algorithms that use a keystream to apply encryption algorithms to plaintext bit by bit (one bit at a time). Asynchronous and synchronous stream ciphers are the two different forms of stream ciphers.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">1) <span id="special-word">Synchronous stream ciphers</span> those in which the keystream is solely dependent on the key.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">2) <span id="special-word">Asynchronous stream ciphers</span> have a keystream that relies on the encrypted data.</p>

