<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Asymmetric cryptography</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you are unique!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Asymmetric cryptography</span> is a type of cryptography in which the key used to encrypt the data differs from the key used to decrypt the data.This is also referred to as public key cryptography.It encrypts and decrypts data using both public and private keys.Asymmetric encryption systems such as RSA, DSA, and ElGammal are in use. </p>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Integer factorization</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">The difficulty of factoring big integers forms the foundation of integer factorization schemes. RSA is the best illustration of this kind of algorithm.</p>


<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Discrete logarithm</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">A discrete logarithm scheme</span> is founded on a challenge in modular mathematics. Finding the exponent of the generator is computationally difficult, however it is simple to determine the modulo function's outcome. In other words, it is quite challenging to identify the input from the outcome. It only works in one direction.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">Take the following equation, for instance: <span id="special-word">3<sup>2</sup> mod 10 = 9</span></p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">Now, it is quite difficult to identify the exponent of the generator 3 in the preceding question, which is the outcome of the preceding equation finding 2 given 9. The Diffie-Hellman key exchange and digital signature algorithms both employ this challenging problem.</p>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Elliptic curves</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">The discrete logarithm problem from previously is the foundation of the elliptic curves algorithm, but it is applied to elliptic curves. The following equation defines an elliptic curve as an algebraic cubic curve over a field. Because the curve is non-singular, it lacks cusps and self-intersections. It includes the two variables a and b as well as the infinite point.</p>
<br>
<i id="sub-md">y<sup>2</sup> = x<sup>3</sup> + ax + b</i>
<br>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">In this case, the numbers a and b's values are components of the field that the elliptic curve is defined on. Over real numbers, rational numbers, complex numbers, or finite fields, elliptic curves can be defined. An elliptic curve over prime finite fields is used in place of real numbers for cryptography reasons. The prime should also be greater than 3.A and/or b's values can be changed to produce various curves.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">The <span id="special-word">Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)</span> and <span id="special-word">the Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH)</span> key exchange are the two most widely used elliptic curve-based cryptosystems.The idea of public and private keys must be investigated in order to comprehend public key cryptography.</p>


