<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Public and private keys</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you are doing great!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">As the name implies, a <span id="special-word">private key</span> is a number that has been generated randomly and is held secretly and privately by its users. Since this is the key used to decrypt messages, private keys must be kept secure and no unapproved access should be permitted; otherwise, the entire concept of public key cryptography is put in jeopardy. Depending on the kind and class of algorithms being used, private keys might have different lengths. For instance, RSA commonly uses keys with 1024 or 2048 bits. A minimum key size of 2048 bits is advised rather than the outdated 1024-bit key size, which is no longer regarded as secure.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">A private key's owner publishes and makes a <span id="special-word">public key</span> publicly accessible. Then, anyone who wants to send an encrypted message to the publisher of the public key can do so by encrypting the message with the public key that has been made available for public use and sending it to the owner of the private key. The communication cannot be decrypted by anybody else since the intended receiver holds the associated private key in confidence. Once the communication with the public key has been delivered, the recipient can use the private key to decode it. There are some issues with public keys, though. These include the veracity of the public keys and the author's identification.</p>

