<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Introducing Bitcoin</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you are on a new lesson!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">The first use of blockchain technology was with <span id="special-word">bitcoin</span>. You will receive a thorough introduction to Bitcoin technology in this chapter.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">With the launch of the first truly decentralized digital currency, which has also shown to be incredibly safe and stable from a network and protocol perspective,<span id="special-word">Bitcoin</span> has sparked a revolution. Despite being valuable, bitcoin is a very unstable and volatile currency. This will be explained in a later chapter. Additionally, it has brought many new study areas and created a significant amount of interest in both academic and industrial research.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Bitcoin</span> has experienced enormous growth in acceptance since Satoshi Nakamoto first announced it in 2008; today, with billions of dollars invested in it, it is the most successful digital money ever. Currently, this currency's market capitalization is $149, 984, 293, 122 as of the writing of this article. Numerous start-ups and businesses that offer bitcoin-based online exchanges, the vast number of users and investors, rising bitcoin prices, daily news about bitcoin, and the fact that it is currently traded as Bitcoin Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange are all additional signs of its popularity (CME).</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">Since the true identity of the person who created Bitcoin is unknown, it is thought that <span id="special-word">Satoshi Nakamoto</span> is a pseudonym. It is based on decades of study in the areas of distributed computing, digital currency, and cryptography. A brief history is provided in the part that follows to give the context necessary to comprehend the principles that led to the creation of Bitcoin.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">Years of cryptographic research, including work on <span id="special-word"> Merkle trees, hash functions, public key cryptography, and digital signatures</span> served as the foundation for Bitcoin. Additionally, concepts like BitGold, B-money, hashcash, and cryptographic time stamping served as the basis for the creation of bitcoin. The first decentralized currency in the world was made possible by the brilliant fusion of all these technologies in Bitcoin. The Byzantine Generals' Problem and the double-spend issue are the two main problems that Bitcoin has elegantly and successfully solved.</p>




