<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Blockchain types</p>
<p id="sub-md">You can do it, congratulations!!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>

<p id="sub-md">Based on how blockchain has evolved over the last few years, it can be split into numerous categories with different, albeit somewhat overlapping, characteristics. It should be noted that the tiers discussed previously in the chapter are a separate notion that presents the logical categorization of blockchain based on its evolution and usage.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">In this section, we will look at the many sorts of blockchains from a technological and business standpoint. Because there is no direct relationship between those levels and the various forms of blockchain, these blockchain types can appear on any blockchain tier.</p>
<br>
<p id="title-lesson">This section will look at</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">1) Distributed ledgers</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">2) Distributed Ledger Technology</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">3) Blockchains</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">4) Ledger</p>
<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Distributed ledgers</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">First, I must resolve an uncertainty. It should be emphasized that the phrase "distributed ledger" refers to a broad category of shared databases; thus, all blockchains technically belong under the umbrella of shared databases or distributed ledgers. While all blockchains are inherently distributed ledgers, not all distributed ledgers are blockchains.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A key distinction between a distributed ledger and a blockchain is that a distributed ledger does not always require blocks of transactions to keep the ledger expanding.
Rather, a blockchain is a form of shared database made up of transaction blocks.<span id="special-word">R3's Corda</span> is one example of a distributed ledger that does not require transaction blocks.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A distributed ledger, as the name implies, is dispersed among its participants and spanned over different sites or organizations. This kind of ledger might be private or public.
The essential principle here is that, unlike many other blockchains, the records are stored concurrently rather than in blocks. Ripple, a blockchain and cryptocurrency-based global payment network, employs this notion.</p>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Distributed Ledger Technology</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">It should be noted that the phrases distributed ledger or Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) have become regularly used to characterize blockchain in the finance industry in recent years. The terms blockchain and DLT are sometimes used interchangeably. Though not fully correct, this is how the phrase has recently evolved, particularly in the finance sector. In reality, DLT is presently a very busy and vibrant area of financial study.
DLTs are permissioned blockchains that are shared and used between known parties in the financial sector. DLTs are typically used as a shared database, with all participants being known and validated. They lack a cryptocurrency or require no mining to secure the ledger.</p>
<br>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Public blockchains</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Public blockchains, as the name implies, are not owned by anyone. They are available to the public, and anyone can participate in the decision-making process as a node. Users' participation may or may not be rewarded. All users of permissionless or unpermissioned ledgers keep a copy of the ledger on their local nodes and utilize a distributed consensus process to determine the ledger's final state. Both Bitcoin and Ethereum are public blockchains.</p>
<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Private blockchains</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Private blockchains, as the name suggests, are exactly that: private. That is, they are only accessible to a consortium or group of individuals or organizations who have agreed to share the ledger. HydraChain and Quorum are two blockchains that are currently available in this category. Both of these blockchains can run in public mode if necessary, but their primary use is to provide a private blockchain.</p>
<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Shared ledger</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">This is a catch-all term for any program or database that is shared by the general public or a consortium. In general, all blockchains are classified as shared ledgers.</p>






