<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Consensus</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations you are amazing !!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>

<p id="sub-md">Consensus is the foundation of a blockchain, and as such, it allows for control decentralization via an optional procedure known as mining. The type of blockchain in use also influences the choice of consensus algorithm; that is, not all consensus mechanisms are appropriate for all types of blockchains. For example, in public permissionless blockchains, PoW would be preferable than a simple agreement method based on proof of authority. As a result, selecting an appropriate consensus method for a certain blockchain project is critical.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Consensus is the method by which distrusting nodes agree on the final state of data. Different algorithms are used to obtain consensus. It is simple to get an agreement between two nodes (as in client-server systems), but when several nodes are involved in a distributed system and must agree on a single value, reaching consensus becomes extremely difficult. Distributed consensus refers to the process of reaching agreement on a shared state or value among several nodes notwithstanding the failure of some nodes.</p>
<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Consensus mechanism</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A consensus mechanism is a set of actions conducted by most or all nodes in a blockchain to agree on a particular state or value. This notion has been studied by computer scientists in industry and academia for over three decades. With the introduction of blockchain and Bitcoin, consensus mechanisms have recently come to the forefront and acquired significant appeal.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Consensus</span>is a method by which distrusting nodes agree on the final state of data. Different algorithms are used to obtain consensus. It is simple to get an agreement between two nodes (as in client-server systems), but when several nodes are involved in a distributed system and must agree on a single value, reaching consensus becomes extremely difficult. Distributed consensus refers to the process of reaching agreement on a shared state or value among several nodes notwithstanding the failure of some nodes.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md-white">A consensus mechanism must meet a number of characteristics in order to provide the desired results. These specifications are as follows:</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Agreement</span> All honest nodes decide on the same value</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Termination</span> All honest nodes terminate execution of the consensus process and
eventually reach a decision</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word"> Validity</span> The value agreed upon by all honest nodes must be the same as the
initial value proposed by at least one honest node</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Integrity</span> This is a requirement that no node can make the decision more than once in a single consensus cycle</p>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Types of consensus mechanisms</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">All consensus procedures are designed to deal with distributed system defects and allow distributed systems to reach a final state of agreement. Consensus processes fall into two broad kinds. These categories cover all forms of errors (failure stop or arbitrary). These are some examples of frequent types of consensus mechanisms:</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Traditional Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT)-based</span> With no compute-intensive procedures, such as partial hash inversion (as in Bitcoin PoW), this system is based on a basic architecture of nodes that are publisher-signed messages. After a particular number of messages are received, an agreement is reached.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Leader election-based consensus mechanisms</span> This architecture necessitates nodes competing in a leader-election lottery, with the winner proposing a final value. The PoW utilized in Bitcoin, for example, falls into this category.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Many viable consensus protocol implementations have been developed. The most well-known of these protocols is Paxos. Leslie Lamport first used it in 1989. Nodes in Paxos are assigned responsibilities such as Proposer, Acceptor, and Learner. Nodes or processes are referred to as replicas, and in the presence of malfunctioning nodes, consensus is reached through agreement among a majority of nodes.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">RAFT is an alternative to Paxos that works by assigning nodes one of three states: follower, candidate, or leader. After a candidate node wins enough votes, a leader is elected, and any changes must then go through the leader. Once replication on the majority of the follower nodes is complete, the leader commits the suggested changes. More elaboration on the theory of consensus mechanisms from the perspective of a distributed system is beyond the scope of this chapter. However, an entire section later in this chapter is devoted to the introduction of consensus methods. Specific algorithms will be covered in later chapters on Bitcoin and other blockchains.</p>
<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Consensus in blockchain</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Consensus is a distributed computing concept that has been employed in blockchain to provide a mechanism for all peers on the blockchain network to agree on a single version of the truth. This notion was previously covered in the chapter's section on distributed systems. We shall discuss consensus in the context of blockchain technology in this section.
Some of the principles given here are still important to distributed systems theory, but they are explained via the lens of blockchain.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md-white">Roughly, the following describes the two main categories of consensus mechanisms:</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">1) <span id="special-word">Proof-based, lottery-based leader election, or the Nakamoto consensus</span> in which a leader is chosen at random (through an algorithm) and offers a final value. This form of consensus process is also known as totally decentralized or permissionless. This type is commonly used in the Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchains as a PoW method.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">2) <span id="special-word">BFT-based</span> is a more traditional technique based on voting rounds. This type of consensus is often referred to as a consortium or a permissioned type of consensus process.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">When there are a limited number of nodes, BFT-based consensus algorithms operate well, but they do not scale effectively. Leader-election lottery-based (PoW) type consensus procedures, on the other hand, scale very well but perform very slowly. As more study is undertaken in this field, new forms of consensus mechanisms, such as the semi-decentralized type utilized in the Ripple network, are emerging. Alternative Blockchains will go over the Ripple network in depth later. There are also some additional approaches out there that attempt to strike the correct balance between scalability and performance.<span id="special-word">PBFT, Hybrid BFT, BlockDAG, Tezos, Stellar, and GHOST</span> are a few significant projects.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">The consensus algorithms that are currently available or being investigated in the context of blockchain are presented below. The list that follows is not exhaustive, but it includes all notable algorithms.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Proof of Work (PoW)</span>Before presenting a value for network acceptance, this form of consensus process requires verification that appropriate computational resources have been used. This technique is utilized in the blockchains of Bitcoin, Litecoin, and other cryptocurrencies. It is currently the only algorithm that has proven to be extremely effective against any collusion attempts on a blockchain network, such as the Sybil attack. Chapter 5, Introducing Bitcoin, will go over the Sybil attack.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Proof of Stake (PoS)</span> This technique is based on the assumption that a node or user has a sufficient stake in the system; that is, the user has invested sufficiently in the system that any malevolent attempt by that user will outweigh the benefits of committing such an attack on the network. This concept was first developed by Peercoin, and it will be incorporated in the Serenity Ethereum blockchain version. Coin age is another significant term in PoS. It is a criterion generated from the period of time and number of coins that have not been spent.
The likelihood of proposing and signing the next block increases with coin age in this scenario.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS)</span> This is an improvement over traditional PoS, where any node with a stake in the system can elect other nodes to perform the task of validating a transaction on their behalf. The BitShares blockchain use it.</p>





