<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Blockchain and the CAP theorem</p>
<p id="sub-md">You're doing fantastic, congrats!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>

<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Eric Brewer</span> first proposed the CAP theorem, commonly referred to as Brewer's theorem, in 1998. It was established as a theorem in 2002 by Nancy Lynch and Seth Gilbert. According to the idea, no distributed system can concurrently have consistency, availability, and partition tolerance:</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Consistency</span> is a characteristic that guarantees that there is a single, current, and identical copy of the data on each node in a distributed system.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Availability</span> signifies that the system's nodes are operational, available for usage, accepting incoming requests, and providing data as and when needed without experiencing any problems. To put it another way, each node has access to data and may fulfill requests.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Partition tolerance</span> ensures that the distributed system continues to function properly even if a group of nodes is unable to interact with other nodes owing to network faults. Failures in the network and nodes may be the cause of this.</p>

<br>

<p id="sub-md">A distributed system cannot concurrently have consistency, availability, and partition tolerance, as has been demonstrated. The example that follows explains this. Let's say there are two nodes in a distributed system. Let's now apply the three theorem qualities to this two-node distributed system, which is the smallest feasible.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Consistency</span> is attained if both nodes have the same shared state; that is, they
have the same up-to-date copy of the data.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Availability</span> is attained if both nodes are up and running and responding with
the latest copy of data.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Partition tolerance</span> is attained if two nodes can interact with one another and communication between them does not fail (either because of network problems, Byzantine faults, etc.).</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Imagine a situation where communication between nodes is cut off due to a partition. It can only be updated on one node if no fresh updated data is received. In that instance, consistency is lost if the node accepts the update because only that single node in the network is updated. In the event that the node rejects the upgrade, availability would be lost. Both availability and consistency are not possible in the scenario due to partition tolerance.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">This is odd because, in some way, blockchain achieves all of these characteristics—or does it? We'll explain this shortly. Replication is used to achieve fault tolerance. This is a tried-and-true technique for achieving fault tolerance. Consensus techniques are used to establish consistency so that each node has the same copy of the data.
State machine replication is yet another name for this. Replicating state machines is possible with the help of the blockchain. There are primarily two fault kinds that a node can encounter.
Both of these kinds are included in the broader class of errors that might develop in a distributed system:</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">1) <span id="special-word">Fail-stop fault</span> When a node merely crashes, this kind of fault takes place. Of the two fault kinds, fail-stop faults are the simpler to handle. The Paxos protocol, which was briefly discussed earlier in this chapter, is typically employed to address this kind of failure.These flaws can easily corrected.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">2) <span id="special-word">Byzantine faults</span> The second kind of error occurs when the offending node behaves maliciously or inconsistently at random. This kind is challenging to manage since it may spread misinformation and lead to confusion. This could happen as a result of a malicious attack, a software flaw, or corrupted data. This second class of problems was addressed by the development of state machine replication protocols like PBFT.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">Strangely, it appears that the blockchain violates the CAP theorem, particularly in Bitcoin, its most popular application. This is not the case, though. Consistency is given up in blockchains in lieu of availability and partition tolerance. In this case, <span id="special-word">Partition tolerance (P), Availability (A), and Consistency (C)</span> on the blockchain are all accomplished over time rather than simultaneously. This is known as eventual consistency, and it occurs when consistency is attained as a result of validation from numerous nodes over time. In Bitcoin, the idea of mining was established for this reason.Using the PoW consensus algorithm, mining is a procedure that makes it easier to reach consensus. A more comprehensive definition of mining is a procedure used to add new blocks to the network.</p>
