<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Decentralization using blockchain</p>
<p id="sub-md">Thank you for your amazing work!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">One of the main advantages and features of blockchain technology is <span id="special-word">decentralization</span>. Blockchain is an ideal platform because it was created to operate without any middlemen and with a wide range of leaders selected through consensus methods. Anyone can compete under this approach to hold the position of decision-making power. The consensus mechanism governing this competition uses the Proof of Work method, which is the most popular one (PoW).</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">Depending on the needs and conditions, decentralization is used to varied degrees, from a semi-decentralized model to a fully decentralized one. From a blockchain perspective, decentralization may be seen as a technology that offers a method to redesign current apps and paradigms or to create new applications in order to give users total control.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">The traditional foundation of information and communication technology (ICT)</span> has been a centralized paradigm where database or application servers are managed by a single entity, such as a system administrator. This concept has been altered by Bitcoin and the emergence of blockchain technology. Now, anyone may build a decentralized system and run it without a single point of failure or one trusted authority. Depending on the type and style of governance employed in the decentralized program operating on blockchain, it can either be run autonomously or require some human interaction.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Centralized systems</span> are traditional (client-server) IT systems in which the system is controlled by a single authority who is solely in charge of all system activities. A centralized system relies on a single service provider for all of its consumers. This traditional approach of service delivery is used by the vast majority of internet service providers, including Google, Amazon, eBay, Apple's App Store, and others.</p>

<br>
<p id="sub-md">Centralized systems Data and computation are dispersed across a number of network nodes in a <span id="special-word">distributed  system</span>. This phrase is occasionally mixed up with parallel computing. Although there is some overlap in the definition, the main distinction between these systems is that a parallel computing system uses computation that is carried out simultaneously by all nodes to produce the desired result; for instance, parallel computing platforms are used in financial modeling, simulation, and weather research and forecasting. On the other hand, users see a distributed system, where data is duplicated over numerous nodes and computation may not take place in parallel, as a single, cohesive system.To accomplish fault tolerance and performance, variants of both of these models are used. In the parallel system model, processing is still controlled by a central entity that oversees every node. The system is still centralized as a result of this.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A central authority that oversees the entire system still remains in a distributed system, whereas there is none in a decentralized system. This is a key distinction between the two types of systems.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">A decentralized system</span> is a kind of network in which control is shared among numerous nodes rather than being reliant on a single master node. This is comparable to a paradigm where each department in a corporation is in charge of its own database server, moving control away from the main server and giving it to the subdepartments, each of which manages its own databases.</p>