<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Methods of decentralization</p>
<p id="sub-md">Thank you for your spadework!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Disintermediation and competition</span> are two techniques that can be utilized to achieve decentralization (Contest-driven decentralization). In the sections that follow, these techniques will be covered in more detail.</p>
<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Disintermediation</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A case study can be used to illustrate the idea of <span id="special-word">disintermediation</span>. Think about wanting to transfer money to a friend who lives abroad. You visit a bank, and for a fee, they will transfer your funds to the bank there. In this instance, the bank keeps an updated central database that serves as proof that you sent the money. Without using a bank, you can give this money to your friend directly thanks to blockchain technology. All you need is your friend's blockchain address. Disintermediation enables decentralization since it eliminates the need for the intermediary, or bank.However, given the extensive legal and compliance requirements in the financial sector, it is questionable how viable decentralization through disintermediation is. However, this concept is applicable not only to the financial sector but to a wide range of other industries.</p>
<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Contest-driven decentralization</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">A case study can be used to illustrate the idea of <span id="special-word">disintermediation</span>. Think about wanting to transfer money to a friend who lives abroad. You visit a bank, and for a fee, they will transfer your funds to the bank there. In this instance, the bank keeps an updated central database that serves as proof that you sent the money. Without using a bank, you can give this money to your friend directly thanks to blockchain technology. All you need is your friend's blockchain address. Disintermediation enables decentralization since it eliminates the need for the intermediary, or bank.However, given the extensive legal and compliance requirements in the financial sector, it is questionable how viable decentralization through disintermediation is. However, this concept is applicable not only to the financial sector but to a wide range of other industries.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">In the method involving competition</span> in order to be chosen by the system to deliver services, many service providers compete with one another. Complete decentralization is not achieved under this approach. To a certain extent, though, it makes sure that a middleman or service provider isn't monopolizing the market. A system where smart contracts can select an external data provider from a large number of providers based on their reputation, prior score, reviews, and quality of service might be imagined in the context of blockchain technology.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md">This approach won't lead to complete decentralization, but it gives smart contracts the freedom to decide based on the aforementioned factors. In this approach, service providers foster a competitive atmosphere where they vie with one another to become the go-to source for data.</p>