<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Decentralized Organizations</p>
<p id="sub-md">Congratulations, you are extremely fast!</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">DOs</span> are blockchain-based software applications that are based on the concept of actual organizations with people and protocols. When a DO is uploaded to the blockchain as a smart contract or a series of smart contracts, it becomes decentralized, and parties communicate with each other using the code described within the DO program.</p>
<br>

<p id="title-lesson">Decentralized Autonomous Organizations</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">DOs</span> are blockchain-based software applications that are based on the concept of actual organizations with people and protocols. When a DO is uploaded to the blockchain as a smart contract or a series of smart contracts, it becomes decentralized, and parties communicate with each other using the code described within the DO program.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word"> The Ethereum blockchain</span> led the way with the initial introduction of DAOs. In a DAO, the
code is considered the governing entity rather than people or paper contracts. However, a
human curator maintains this code and acts as a proposal evaluator for the community.
DAOs are capable of hiring external contractors if enough input is received from the token
holders.</p>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">The DAO,</span> the most well-known DAO project, raised $168 million through crowdfunding. The DAO project was created as a venture capital fund with the goal of offering a decentralized business model with multiple owners. Unfortunately, this initiative was compromised because of a flaw in the DAO design, and millions of dollars' worth of ether (ETH) were taken out of the project and transferred to a fake DAO that the hackers had made. To undo the effects of the attack and begin the process of recovering the assets, a hard fork was necessary on the Ethereum network.The debate over the security, reliability, and necessity of thoroughly verifying the code in smart contracts in order to assure their integrity and proper control was sparked by this incident. There are other initiatives running that aim to codify smart contract writing and testing, particularly in academia.</p>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Decentralized Autonomous Corporations</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word"> Decentralized Autonomous Corporations (DACs),</span> though seen as a more limited subset of DAOs, are conceptually similar to them. Although the definitions of DACs and DAOs may overlap, the general difference between the two is that DAOs are typically thought of as charitable organizations, whereas DACs can make money by offering shares to participants, who they can then pay dividends to. Based on the logic that has been embedded into DACs, businesses can be operated automatically without human involvement.</p>
<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Decentralized Autonomous Societies</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">DA concept known as "decentralized autonomous societies" (DASs)</span> proposes that an entire society might run on a blockchain with the assistance of numerous, intricate smart contracts and a combination of autonomously operating DAOs and Decentralized Applications (DApps).
This model does not necessarily entail a free-for-all strategy, nor is it solely based on libertarian ideology; rather, many services that a government ordinarily provides, such as government identity card systems, passports, and records of deeds, marriages, and births, can be provided via blockchains.According to another hypothesis, if a government is corrupt and centralized systems are unable to give a society the levels of confidence it requires, then society can create its own virtual government on a blockchain that is run on decentralized consensus and transparency. Although this idea might seem like the stuff of libertarian or cypherpunk fantasies, it is completely feasible on a blockchain.</p>

<br>
<p id="title-lesson">Decentralized Applications (DApps)</p>
<div id="line-md">1</div>
<br>
<p id="sub-md"><span id="special-word">Decentralized Applications (DApps)</span> Up until this point, every concept has fallen under the larger category of DApps. DAOs,
DApps that run in a peer-to-peer network on top of a blockchain include DACs and DOs. They
represent the most recent decentralization technology development. On the other hand, DApps
are applications that can run on their own blockchains, make use of an already
employ solely the protocols of an established blockchain, or both.</p>